I was in a cycle of self-hatred and it
was just a really dark time I went out
and I knew I had to make it look like an
accident cuz I did not want my kids to
think that I had
committed please welcome Jada pinket
Smith Jada I knew you as a Hollywood
actress I never knew you were the
daughter of two drug addicted parents
and a teenage drug dealer yourself on
the streets of Baltimore I really
thought I was going to be the next big
time female drug dealer I was absolutely
Fearless but getting 2 n mm pointed at
you they pointed two guns at you that's
a big wakeup call but what happened
somebody set me up and then I had to
always have this tough exterior now as
I'm dismantling my defenses I'm in a
really raw place the holy slap what
happened I knew I was going to get
blamed but like it was insane you say
protection is your love language did you
see that as a Act of love the
entanglement conversation we broke up
and then what did you do J my mother my
kids they were like how could you do
this do you regret putting that out
honestly I've got this wonderful picture
that I found oh I know that picture do
you know why this is
relevant yeah I lost him back to
back that's the way it is
I just want to start this episode with a
message of thanks a thank you to
everybody that Tunes in to listen to
this podcast by doing so you've enabled
me to live out my dream but also for
many members of our team to live out
their dreams too it's one of the
greatest privileges I could never have
dreamed of or imagined in my life to get
to do this to get to learn from these
people to get to have these
conversations to get to interrogate them
from a very selfish perspective trying
to solve problems I have in my life so I
feel like I owe you a huge thank you for
being here and for listening to these
episodes and for making this platform
what it is can I ask you a favor I can't
tell you how much um you can change the
course of this podcast the the course of
the guests were able to invite to the
show and to the course of everything
that we do here just by doing one simple
thing and that simple thing is hitting
that subscribe button helps this channel
more than I could ever explain the
guests on this platform are incredible
because so many of you have hit that
button and I know when we think about
what we want to do together over the
next year on this show a lot of it is
going to be fueled by the amount of you
that are subscribed and that tune into
this show every week so thank you let's
keep doing this and I can't wait to see
what this year brings for this show for
us as a community and for this
[Music]
platform Jada yes I always believe that
in order to understand someone you have
to understand their context and having
read through the entirety of your book
there was this line that stood out to me
which I think
might
be might summarize the most important
part of your earliest context which is
when I go in search of the origins of My
Broken Heart it is the sense of not
being the priority to the two people who
gave me life that creates a fracture in
my feeling of worth yeah why did you
write that
line because it's true you know it's
like our parents are like our first
mirrors and so my parents were really
young when they had me I mean my mom was
17 right 17 18 she was 17 when she was
pregnant I think she was 18 by the time
she had me so youth on top
of
addiction and I just realized you know
as I was going through my life in
different therapeutic settings I was
like oh wow like the first mirror I
had was kind of non-existent in a way
because
drugs were my parents'
priority you know during my upbringing
and
so I didn't really get the reflection
of feeling like a priority to the people
who brought me into the world now thank
goodness my grandmother came into the
picture you know and she really she was
a a beautiful powerful mirror for me
that you know even to my you know it's
still a mirror for me to this day
um where I could see myself I could see
the beauty of myself I could see my
gifts and my talents was through her and
what she was reflecting back to me but
um I think it's important
that I think it's important if it's
possible for children to
feel that sense of
um that sense sense of importance that
sense of priority from their
parents I had an air of sort of
loneliness as I read through the pages
this kind of lonely young girl who was
searching to be recognized and loved and
to someone to sort of hold her hand and
guide her through those early years
and other than in your grandmother's
garden with your
grandmother it it found like that place
of home was never was never really
there yeah yeah I definitely had it with
my grandmother now once she
passed that's when I took to the streets
to like figure
out
finding my home finding my tribe finding
my power finding my identity finding my
purpose finding my
worth
yeah your dad mhm Rob
yeah he um he took for a walk one day
and explained to you why he couldn't be
your
father he
did I was seven and
um he just said he said look I'm a I'm
an addict and a criminal and I can't be
your father and I was like now mind you
he hadn't really been in my life that
much anyway I didn't really know he
wasn't present in my in my life enough
for me to even know what it was like to
have a father but what I did appreciate
in that moment was like wow just thank
you thank you for like being honest now
I didn't realize at that time because I
was so young how that would
affect my relationships with men ongoing
you know as an adult
woman um but yeah in that moment I was
just like thank you somebody is like
being honest with me I'm not crazy
something is absolutely not right here
and he's letting me know what that is is
and he's saying
hey I'm going to keep my distance you
know 10 years old 12 13 years old what
does Jada think she's going to be when
she grows
up at 10 11 12 13 I I definitely was
like I wanted to be an artist definitely
wanted to be an actress you wanted to be
an actress yeah I did I did I wanted to
be an actress I started very young I was
doing theater um I think my first
professional gig was like seven years
old as one of Madame Bon Bon's children
in the
Nutcracker um and then I was in you know
different theatrical programs in the
summertime and what have you and then
the uh when I got the opportunity to
join Twigs which prepared you for
Baltimore School for the Arts I joined
that after school program so Arts has
always been been a big part of my life
do you know why cuz when as I read
through those early years of your life
it seemed that acting was doing
something the the performance the being
on stage
the the validation I think it was giving
you was doing something for you that it
might not have done for someone else who
hadn't walked the steps You' walked up
until that point the validation but also
an
outlet it was a real outlet for me where
I was able to EXP Express certain
feelings that I didn't feel like I had
the permission to express at
home um and um it was a
huge it was a huge outlet for me in that
way I mean to the point
that my theater teachers would often
tell me um you know they try to steer me
into like more why don't you try more
comedic roles you know I was always
going for the very dramatic very high
highly emotional you know uh
roles um and my I just remember my
theater teacher always trying to guide
me into
diversifying the monologues that I would
choose uh for for my pieces to work on
in
class I read um read some books I think
one of them was called the body holds
the score which talks about mhm the role
that acting can play as sort of a
therapy yeah and it's
so it seems to not be a coincidence that
the amount of actors I've sat here and
spoke with who have pretty um
Unthinkable Early Childhood experiences
domestic violence in the home Etc that
then find acting as an outlet for a form
of escapism almost escaping the identity
embodying a different role absolutely
totally agree totally
agree as I read it in your story I was
like not another
one yes another one
it's
classic yeah and I I reflect on some of
the words you wrote in the early part of
the book where you're talking about your
mother and your father there being
domestic violence in the home at an
early age your mother running out of the
house dropping you on the floor because
Rob had punched her I believe your
father had punched her yeah the these
are stories I guess you've heard after
the fact from your mother
yeah but I guess you believe those
moments leave a mark
absolutely I mean my mother talks about
it to this day and we'll choke up she'll
you know cry it's like it's it's you
don't get over things in the sense of
like it's forgotten you know you learn
to cope with it you heal in a certain
manner but it still can leave a certain
imprint upon you um and even hearing
those stories are not easy you know even
as an adult because she didn't really
give me the details until I was
was I mean my kids would dag on their
adults before she shared with me the
level of violence that she dealt with
with my dad did it help you understand
yourself did it help you connect
dots I don't
know if it helped me understand myself
as much as it helped me understand my
mother and then that helped me
understand a lot of how her journey has
imprinted upon me in a certain manner
you know so I guess it does if you take
you know through through my mother and
her journey helped me understand her
journey which has affected me so yeah I
guess you could say that it helped me
understand myself more I say that
because I sat with um you know Gabel
matate gab gab M I do yeah yes yes he
was the he's the person that opened my
eyes to the fact that even the things
that occurred when when we are babies
yeah we interpret them to mean um
certain things about ourselves and he
says babies are incredibly selfish so
for example if the parents are arguing
the baby will interpret that is
reflection of them MH and I think about
the early context that I think I read
about in your story but also that
appears in mine and how I interpreted
that to mean that I wasn't enough in
some way yeah um which is a real through
line throughout your story yeah for
sure I and I think
that probably is probably
more subconscious unconscious than that
which the abuse of drugs
and how that reflected to me that I
wasn't worthy in a certain manner
that why is it that this particular
substance has more power over you know
has more attention more power more
influence than me
to the point that your father will tell
you I'm
relinquishing my parental rights because
I'd rather be a criminal on a drug
addict than try to get my [__] together
for
you is the way I interpreted
that and at the same time was like just
thank you for being honest instead of
sitting up here pretending like you're
doing something different thank
you you know which a lot of people would
do Tony was he your he was your mother's
first part partner after Rob no she he
was her first husband first husband okay
yeah after Rob and he seemed to be a
pretty solid he yeah he was he was
indeed it's this guy comes into your
life and plays the role of a father by
all accounts he seems to do a pretty
good job and seems to love on you in a
way that is sufficient for a child
but then he
too vanishes out of your life makes a
exit makes an acit yeah which I
understand you know as an adult now
looking back and and looking at the
circumstances you know he did the best
that he could he's a man that was trying
to get his life together and my mother
was was deep in her
addiction addiction to heroin at that
time and so
you you can't you can't
negotiate with that it's either you want
to get help you know um or you have to
sometimes you have to make clean breaks
I know that now as an adult and you
don't always know how to play the
middle you know and so I get it what
does that do to you as a young a young
woman who's trying to figure out what
where safety is it's devastating ating
it's devastating I mean I completely
abandoned feeling like I could depend on
anyone which is why I just took to the
streets I was like you know what I'm
going to figure
out how to make money gain power and
create a situation where I can protect
myself and my mother and make sure just
in case she doesn't make it I'mma be
okay you take to the street
when you say take to the streets what
you mean by that when I would see you
know the high rollers the hustlers I was
like oh that's what I want you know I
want
to have the Mercedes I want to have big
wads of cash in my pocket I want to have
friends around me that will protect
me and I want to be able to have
security and stability created by my own
hands I don't want to depend on anybody
not only do I not want to depend on
anybody I can't depend on anyone and so
the
streets that's where I saw
security because we didn't have doctors
and lawyers you know
to look upon you know like that's the
aspiration right because in our
neighborhoods that's what we had we had
hustlers
right and they had the good life so you
could be a hustler or you could be a
Hustler's girlfriend I wasn't trying to
be the girl one trying to be a
girlfriend and
so I'd look
to to that lifestyle
to offer me the security that I didn't
have at
home as an opportunity for me to create
that security that I didn't have at home
security
protection safety these are all words
that appear over and over and over again
in your
book I know right yeah childhood to
adulthood those are the the most
recurring words yep and you you found
that security in part through a
lifestyle of drug dealing yourself MH um
which again I said to you before we
started recording Jada that I knew you
as a Hollywood actress you know that's
what I that's what I know of you of I'm
not someone that's hugely involved in
Media or TV or movie so that's what I
thought I never in my life IM thought of
you as the daughter of two um drug
addicted parents who had chosen their
addiction over you and I never knew that
you started dealing drugs when you were
very very young were you were you not
scared dealing drugs in Baltimore
and you you don't have time to be scared
that environment was a war zone right
and so it's like stuff was popping off
all the time so you just get used to a
certain level of violence you get used
to a certain level of
um just vigilance because that's what
you're
given so you just learn to adapt to that
kind of environment so the levels what
what somebody might consider
dangerous for me was just
normal it wasn't like ooh I'm going into
something crazy here you know it's like
[__] everything's crazy so what right so
I look at it now and I go what in the
world you know but I have I'm living a
different reality in that time when I
was living that
reality that's what life was and
everybody that's what we were all living
was there moments
that were wakeup calls hell yeah and you
were dealing drug listen getting two n
millimeters pointed at you at one time
one to your head that's a that that you
would think that's a big wakeup call Jay
we don't all know what 9 millimeter is
oh you know I guns you know it's two big
guns you know when did that
happen
um I had to
be
17 17 17 years old because that was my
senior year of high
school and what what was the reason that
someone pointed two guns at your
head I was I had uh posted up in this in
the projects in this apartment on the
bottom floor where I would sell drugs
out of the window or through the door of
that particular
apartment and somebody set me up to make
a long story short somebody set me up
and um as I was making the exchange
through the door that had the chain on
it two guys from the side of the door
which I couldn't see because I'm looking
through the peephole two guys from the
side of the door come around and kick
the door
in and pull out guns Point them to me
and take all my money my jewelry and
stash and I was really lucky to make it
out of that alive for sure because the
person who led that robbery ended up
killing two drug dealers um two weeks or
a month after put them in a uh put him
in a trunk shot the trunk up and uh
murdered
two guys and um he ended up doing life
for that
but uh I could tell as he was leaving
you know you it's so interesting when
you're in moments like that I can still
see his eyes as he's leaving me and how
he's making a choice in the moment of
what he's going to do with
me and by the grace of
God he left me there
why well when and of course I you know
my crazy self because of
who because of the protection that I was
under at the time I called that person I
was like I just got robbed he knew
exactly he knew exactly he's like I know
who this is don't worry about anything
um I was like I want my [__]
back and
so we actually um
that person whose Wing I was under he
made for a meeting for us to meet in
that area a couple of days later he was
like you're not going to get your money
back you're not going to get the drugs
back but maybe there might be some
pieces of jewelry of yours that he'll
you know he hasn't sold yet and that's
he was exactly right he had you know a
couple chains or
whatever and I told I asked him I said
you
know why' you just leave me there like
and he said you were too pretty and that
was the first time and I talk about this
in the book that was the first time that
I was like well maybe I am pretty
because I was like maybe I am pretty
because you know he cuz this this was a
stone cold killer and I talk about even
when I met him how he looked like he he
had never
felt any kind of love in his
life and I'm just I don't know what kind
of crazy nut I was at that time I was
just so
all I can say is just out of my mind
like I was just in such an alter reality
I I I really thought I was going to be
the next Queen pen first of
all again a lot of people don't know
what queen pen is Jan yeah well you know
I thought I was going to be the next you
know like big time female drug dealer
you know and I really had I I was I I
was crazy I absolutely was just a nut
because I had no fear whatsoever I was
absolutely Fearless
to be rolling with these wolves like
this and like it was nothing like it was
absolutely nothing I think about that
today I think of my daughter I'm like
what the
like I don't know all I can and that's
when I know and I think back on
everything that I've been through I was
like there is a God for sure there was a
God cuz that
dude for me to even want to see his face
again was like I want my [__]
back and he had it he had it for me he
was like there you go you know and so um
but it prepared me for Hollywood it
prepared me it prepared me big time how
it prepared me in a way because I was
running with Killers that's it's as
simple as that right so the Hollywood
Flex you know dudes who
were presenting themselves as like these
powerful you know if you don't do what I
say like bro
honestly it it it just didn't resonate
that way for me I just looked at it I
looked at all of that as just kind of
like puppy
play it didn't resonate with you but
from the words you describe in your book
about how you received in Hollywood it
appears that H you didn't resonate with
Hollywood either for a while I did not
yeah for a minute this Rough Around the
Edges Rough Around the Edges yeah
because I mean it it was part of what
was refreshing for a lot of people but
it was also the thing that was
standoffish too right what is that um I
think just that that edge that I came
with that
no you know having no [__] to give
basically was just like I'm here to do
me
what you know and I got something to
offer and if you can't see it well then
that's on you you're lost you know just
that kind of attitude and just kind of
like you know I wasn't your Prim
proper uh
demure young lady you know it's just
kind of like as just rough
rugged and rambunctious since
interesting isn't it in life how a
certain type of demeanor or attitude or
mindset can help us to survive and
thrive in one context but sometimes we
need to figure out how to turn that [__]
off yes and that's what I had to learn
to do cuz you weren't in Survival
anymore I wasn't in Survival anymore you
know
and I talk about this in the book you
know how Warren batty bless him he was
probably one of the first people that
was just like
hey you're in Hollywood now okay I get
it but why don't you allow people to see
some other aspects that charm you have
that smile you have like let's take that
let's take that chip off your shoulder a
little bit you know and he was the first
person really to talk to me in a way
that wasn't like making me
wrong right he didn't make me
wrong for being who I was he was just
like there's so much more to you let
people see that
you know and that was the first time I
actually listened because he didn't make
me wrong and I bet you Warren has no
idea that how how much that conversation
and the time that he spent with me
really meant to me was really awesome
because he was he was so respectful and
he really
honored where I
sat and where you you didn't get that
often in Hollywood it was just like no
you got to change this you got to do
this different you you'll never get jobs
like that I was just like well then I
won't work
cuz you know I was very rebellious
sometimes in that
way um but yeah he really that really
stuck with me and from that day on I
just started on the Journey of trying to
figure out how to not lose
myself but also
feel find a way to
feel safe to take that approach because
like I said I was
around wolves all the time so I had to
always be on guard I had to always have
this tough exterior I always had to
carry the attitude like I'm not the one
you don't want to come over here it's
interesting cuz when
you putting up such a barrier to defend
yourself
um Can often make us quite hard
to form connections yes absolutely the
reason I paus there is because I'm
thinking about what you said in the book
after Tony left you who was your
mother's new husband he left abrupt
abruptly after playing the role of of a
father and you said the line about um
the rejection was was brutal something
broke inside me my grief was Oceanic I
put on a li I put it on a library shelf
labeled unlovable and I tried to leave
it there that's another word that comes
up over and over again this word UNL
unlovable and it's funny because when
people are when they feel unlovable
themselves they do often put up these
walls which make them it's almost like
self-fulfilling it's right you know
exactly and that's the essence of what I
felt in J when she arrives in Hollywood
is this person who's got this sort of
little bit of a tough exterior up but
not because not because she's not you
know yeah not because you know it was
really just it was it was so many things
I was trying to protect it was defense
not offense what I'm saying exctly yeah
it was and and I still to this day you
know people like you know I still to
this day have to like manage that
because it's
just it's just in me it's just part of
me it's something because it was such
a um
it was you know it was something that
was built at the foundation you know
it's in my DNA default it's yeah it's my
default so it's like and I I do it well
I can just you won't know anything
that's going on but like you said it's
like well then you don't give yourself
an opportunity to make the connections
that you really want to have and you're
going to be misunderstood stood yeah all
the time which that is like that has
been my life too just
misunderstood another thing I learned
from reading the book which is going to
shock you that I didn't know but this
shows how little I am tuned into media
and Hollywood all that is your
relationship with Tupac oh yeah he comes
over introduces himself yeah first day
of school Baltimore School for the Arts
and um as soon as I walk in he's holding
Court he's holding Court
he's a like he's a charismatic from day
one he's holding Court I'm like who's
who's that peanut head dude over there
you know and I'm coming in I'm rocking
you know I'm Jada I'm walking in I got
the rat tail I got the fly clothes you
know and he turns and we our eyes just
meet and I'm like oh and then you know
I'm I'm going to hold my court you know
I'm
saying and so then he comes over you
know my I'm like oh okay cool yeah
whatever and so he comes over and he's
like hey I'm Tupac and I'm like Tupac
the name from the gate was just like
never heard a name like that before that
was such a
powerful different name and I was like
Tupac and he had this big smile and I
was like it's not a lot of people that
have that kind of like Charisma and
courage to just walk up on me on just
like I'm Tupac I'm you know what I mean
you need to know me you know and from
the right from there Inseparable we
became the best of friends from that
moment on we just connected it was as if
we already knew each other it's
crazy people will find it hard to
believe that at that age in that
environment it wasn't a romantic thing I
know people have had a really hard time
you know understanding that Pac and I
had a hard time understanding
why it just didn't we didn't have it and
I talk about it in the book you know
that being on the back of porch of my
house and we're like having this
discussion I'm like okay Pac just kiss
me and he kisses me and it's the most
disgusting kiss between us both I mean
he pulled back just like and I pulled
back and I was like see dummy you know
and from there it was just like and then
there was one more time he kissed me and
it was just like like and I talk about
that in in jail when I go to see him in
danam Mora that's a whole another thing
and once again it's just
like
dude doesn't work but
throughout our
relationship we definitely had this
beautiful
closeness that was really
intimate but never physically intimate a
lot of emotional
intimacy a lot of um
intellectual
intimacy um we just knew how to reach
each other in ways that was very
difficult we knew how to get around each
other's walls and we didn't get offended
when we would fall into our defaults of
Defense which could be be pretty Fierce
between the two of us he was
quite uh a Powerhouse and so was I we
could be very challenging when we got
riled up so arguments we were very
passionate but because we were one and
the same in that way we kind of
understood that language like a this
joke is is you know what I mean so we
didn't get offended a lot until one
particular time which comes later in the
book yeah when you come from the same
place so you know origin stories you
don't have that misunderstood thing you
talk about because you understand I just
understood him I just understood him and
he understood me he really got me and he
really knew how to pull my coattails in
ways that a lot of people didn't and
same for me with him I just
knew how to reach him in ways that and
and that had everything and I think
because we didn't
have that kind of I think sometimes
physical intimacy can really get in the
way MH you know um and I think that God
just made it that way in which Gody was
like no no no I need you to to be I I I
got a plan so that's not part of plan
did you know did you in your heart of
hearts know that Tupac was going to go
on to do what he
did I knew he was going to go to do
something m
I did not know he would
become the Tupac we know him to be but I
knew he was going to do something great
in hindsight when you look back at who
he was the character traits the
ingredients that were within him why did
he go on to do what he did what was it
about
him he wore his heart on his sleeve and
he could join
you and so what I mean by joining you is
that he's not talking at you he's
talking with you he had a way of being
able
to speak about subject matters
that he's going to sit with you in your
broken heart and speak to you from there
because he knows that broken
heart he's lived that broken heart so
and whether it's your broken heart
whether it's your
rage but he just knew how to penetrate
those emotional spaces in people and
that's what I mean by joining you he
knew how to join you
emotionally in so many different
vertical of
emotion you know he was supremely
intelligent as well he was so authentic
also and so raw that I think that was
really refreshing as well he gave you
him
and he was Unapologetic so he's going to
give you his intelligence he's going to
give you his fear he's going to give you
his pain he's going to give you his
anger you know he's going to give you
his sympathy he's going to give you his
understanding right
but it was coming from
that that heart space that that that
real space within it wasn't a gimmick it
wasn't like oh I'm going to talk about
this because this is what's hot
no you know right wrong or indifferent
he gave you his truth and some truth
people could rock with with them and
some truth you couldn't you know what I
mean and um but regardless it was what
was real for him at that time he was
always
authentic but it's not easy it comes
with a cost right it comes with a
cost because it's almost the opposite of
conformity in a way authenticity yeah
exactly and he was a rebel in that way
and I think people
really I at at points in his
career you know he could speak he would
speak for the community and then at
points of his career he would speak from
that that really intimate place of
woundedness Dear Mama yeah you know that
so many of
us related to nobody was speaking to us
in that way
that could that could go from Ambitions
of a
rider to shed so many
tears to a soldier Story come
on come
on you know to I mean he had so he could
speak to us from so many different
angles that is just the evidence of
authenticity isn't it because people are
multifaceted in their nature no one is
just ambition of AI yeah we were all all
the shades all the shades right but rap
rap music especially back then was very
narrowing it was like this is how to be
a rapper so someone willing to be
authentic it's funny I've seen this over
and over again they they are the most
resonant people in the world because
they represent us in a way that a lot of
others aren't brave enough to represent
us in that's also what vulnerability
does yes that's what you do as well in
this book well thank you because because
you're willing to lay it all out we can
relate to many people will be able to
relate to many parts of you and
you know without books like this we get
narrow views and those narrow views
those are crafted by other people and
they're the least relatable narratives
right yeah and we're also
multi-dimensional you moved to LA you're
working three jobs you start trying to
climb into the ladder of Hollywood um at
this point you you meet a certain Fresh
Prince the Savior Prince the Savior
Prince oh yeah and I was quite shocked
by I think of I think of Will Smith I
think charismatic he's good-looking guy
yeah you didn't seem to think that
way no not at first yeah what did you
think at first I mean he was the fresh
prince I was like okay he's cool you
know but I was like not not not the guy
for
me you know why was he too soft I
wouldn't say he I wouldn't say soft I
would just say that he didn't seem
deep and I talk about this in the book
how at that time a troubled dude seemed
deep to me versus just
troubled it's like stay away from the
troubled right and so he wasn't troubled
it didn't seem to be right and so I was
like that's not deep like he just seems
like you know just didn't draw me in
that
way you didn't feel the same way anymore
though do the the Deep Parts he's
actually yeah exactly yeah yeah don't
judge a book by its cover that that's
that's what Will Smith told taught me it
was like not to judge a book by his
cover and I learned that you know years
later when we had an opportunity to have
you know we had a mutual friend and so
we were able ble to share some time at
Jerry's Deli over a meal and I got to
see a totally different side of him
Dwayne Dwayne Martin yeah yeah you went
to that jacket Potato Place yeah the
baked potato mhm what was it about what
did you see in will that night I found
it really interesting because one of the
things that you described seeing in him
was someone who quite was quite adamant
in taking over the world yeah he so
ambitious you know and in such a
beautiful way he had Big Dreams Big
Dreams and
um and he was so
joyful he was really joyful but
grounded and that was the part that I
missed he was grounded it was
like he' been through some things and he
was
really
intelligent so he's what you call you
know he go from the hood to the White
House and everywhere in
between right and I always find people
like that
fascinating that have a wide
range within
them places that they can go you know
you drop Will anywhere and he's going to
figure it out and fit in he had asked
you to be his onc screen girlfriend
hadn't he he okay yeah so I AUD IED for
fresh prins I think it was the second
year to pay one of his girlfriends and
they were like you're too short I was
like all right cool
right and so that was the first time
that I actually met will I came out of
the the
casting and he was you know coming into
the casting office or about to leave or
something and he was like Hey I was like
yeah what's up you know I was like no
need to talk to me they always said I'm
I'm short yeah know so I'm on my way and
then and I think I I think I was
probably about 20 um and he wanted he he
wanted me to play his you know his
girlfriend as a series regular so he
flew in to North Carolina to meet me and
I was like n I'm going to do movies now
and he was like all right cool that's a
that's a bold that's a big
rejection to reject the fresh prince of
ballad when he says you can be his sort
of recurring onscreen girlfriend in a
hit show and you say TV's not for me I'm
going to focus on movies big cool well I
had just done it I had just come off of
a different
world and I knew like I had the
protection of Debbie Allen on a
different world right and so when I
wanted to make moves Debbie was there to
help me that's not to say that I would
have that same assistance on fresh
prints and at that time they locked you
in mhm you couldn't do anything you know
what I mean they have you for six years
they got you
locked and I I just didn't want to be
locked like that and so I really wanted
to try my hand
at doing movies and then Dwayne Martin
when I turned will down Dwayne Martin
got on me because he felt the same way
you did it was just like it's Financial
Security how could you let something
like this go and you know who's to say
when your next starring Mo you know role
is going to come in and blah blah blah
blah blah and I was like but I'm so glad
that I didn't take that role because I
tell you what if I had taken that role
will and I would not have been married
and I wouldn't have had Jaden and Willow
and been Trey's bonus mom my life would
have been totally
different you sure I'm positive yeah as
in you're sure that you wouldn't have
gotten married I'm
positive because you seen yeah no you
would have seen the red flags listen
no yeah no earthquakes are hard to
predict sometimes you feel tram is ahead
of time often they come on
suddenly and in your early 20s you had
your first maybe not even your first but
what you describe in the book is your
first breakdown personal earthquake when
you're driving down the street one
day mental health and Psychiatry have
come a long way since then um I I I
would guess that at the time many people
wouldn't have been able to tell you what
that
was I had no idea what was going on me
just thinking about that moment just
it's like
um I was so overwhelmed you know and I
was like I I didn't know what was going
on with me and it came over me in an
instant I was fine one
moment I'm turning my car around to meet
a friend on the corner that you know I
saw to say and to say hello to her and
all of a sudden my body shaking all
these emotions come over me and I I'm
like I'm starting to it's like waterfall
of like tears and I I'm like and I have
no idea like my brain is not catching up
to what is happening with my body all I
know is that this waterfall this volcano
of emotions It Was Fear anger
Despair and I was like I I got and she
was looking at me like are you okay and
I was like I don't know I you know and I
get in the car and I'm trying to drive
and I'm like you can't drive pull
over and then I pull
over and then I just
remember feeling terrified to just let
it go and I let it go and then I'm like
I want to
die I want to
die and I
remember making it
home and all I could do was call my
mother and say you got to come here
I'mma kill
myself you know and I think about that
and I'm just like wow and my mother was
like she was maybe a year into her
sobriety
right and what a terrifying call to get
like if I get that call from Willow or
Jaden or Trey I'm just you know it's
like and
um so she's figuring out because she
just started a job at this
hospital I'm so terrified to be by
myself I call my H girl MC light and I
tell her like you got to come out here
I'm afraid to be alone by myself I'm
going to do something to
myself and she flies out and so she
holds me down until my mother
comes it's a crazy
moment have you figured out what what
your body was telling
you I think my body was telling me that
I think my
mind
was telling me
hey we have some things we got to pay
attention to up here enough with let's
keep it moving I'm going to make it so
you're not going to just be able to keep
it moving anymore you have some things
that you got to pay attention to some
things that need to be addressed and at
the
time like you were just talking about
nobody was talking about Mental Health
at all and
specifically mental health was
considered like a white people thing
black people don't have mental health
issues right and so suicide for sure was
a white people thing so I was real
confused I I felt
really I felt like something is is has
gone really really really wrong here
because nobody else like me feels like
this nobody knows what's going on
and maybe I'm losing my mind I'm
actually going
crazy no so it was a scary
time when I read about that it sounded
to me like you had been you've been
playing defense for just a little bit
too long yeah for sure for sure and
that's I guess one of the costs of the
the toughness right they're like as you
say we'll just keep it moving we just
keep it moving nobody a me are they no
it's going to catch you you can deal
with it or it will deal with you those
are your Cho those are your two
choices but you you did keep it moving
even in that moment it seemed it seemed
like you you carried on with the work um
I think you were you were recommended to
go and see a psychiatrist right yeah I
went to see a psychiatrist they put me
on um Prozac and I I started therapy I
started
therapy but it does still appear that
you kept it moving because you you kept
working you didn't seem to want to show
anybody outside of your sort of inner
circle hell no why absolutely
not because that's what we do we keep it
moving right and so I was like I got the
help that I need I got a doctor and I'm
on Prozac
just like right so I'm like okay I'm
doing what I'm supposed to be doing
and I can't let anybody
know and we're GNA keep this moving
because that's what we
do plaster over cracks yeah we just at
that time I'm going to take a break
because you know I'm having I'm
depressed what at that time that that
seem absolutely ridiculous quick one I
discovered a product which has changed
my life called Eight sleep this product
eight sleep which are a sponsor of this
podcast has been a revelation in my life
because the eight- sleep pod cover which
is basically a fitted sheet that goes
over your mattress controls the
temperature of your bed throughout the
night and it follows Nature's natural
Rhythm it starts cool gets colder while
you go into different phases of sleep
and then heats up slightly as you wake
up in the morning which is effectively
guiding you to have a deeper more
restorative sleep I genuinely think of
all the things that we would include in
health and fitness I think sleep now is
the the most important factor the thing
that I'm thinking about most often every
single day when I wake up in the morning
the first thing I do is I check my sleep
and I use that information to determine
how to proceed in that day how hard to
work out how many meetings to have what
I need to cancel what time I need to get
to bed so to celebrate them being a new
podcast sponsor I always want to get a
discount for you guys and I've got one
go to eight sleep.com which is EIG ghts
sleep.com
slst and if you do that you'll save
$150 on the Pod cover that I have on my
bed the one I'm talking about grab your
pod cover send me a DM and let me know
how you get on let's talk about Zoe who
you may know because they're a sponsor
of this podcast and I'm an investor in
the company you guys know health is my
number one priority Zoe's growth story
has been absolutely incredible so far
they're doing science at a scale that
I've never seen before because of their
members and recent breakthroughs in
research they can now continue to offer
the most scientifically Advanced gut
health test on the market previously the
test allowed them to analyze 30 bacteria
types in your gut but now thanks to new
science they've identified a 100
bacteria types this is a huge step
forward and there's nothing else that's
available even close to it on the market
at all so to find out more and to get
started on your Zoe Journey visit
zoe.com
/st you can use my exclusive code
ce10 for 10% off don't tell anybody
about that okay just for you guys did
you go back to Baltimore I did I went
back to Baltimore um and because I
was going to continue working but not
live in LA
anymore and so I bought a
farmhouse I bought a little farmhouse
on I want to say it was about 6 Acres
maybe six or nine acres if I remember
correctly and it was
um I was going to build a life there for
myself in a little quiet
corner and you know I was like all right
I'll if I need to audition I'll either
go to New York or I can just fly back
and forth from
La I will was trying to hit you up at
this this point in your life yeah he hit
me up he had just Sheree had just sent
him divorce papers and um he decides to
call me and of course me not knowing
anything about marriage thinking that
marriage you know break up of a marriage
is like breaking up with a
boyfriend he's like you know um where
are you and I'm like I'm in Baltimore
you know renovating my
house and he's like are you seeing
anybody and I'm like no he's like good
you seeing me now and I was like
what once again that kind of bold you
know approach I was just like oh clutch
my pearls a little bit so he was like
you know call me when you get back to LA
so when I got back to LA I called him
and we went out on our first
date in and around that time pack had
been sentenced to Rikers right he'd been
sent sent to jail for he been sent to at
that point in time he was at Rikers but
then he was on his way to damura which
is a horrific place where they send
terrorists yeah usually yeah I think the
9/11 some of the people that were
involved with 911 or the well Trade
Center bombings were sent to damura um
while he's in
jail while he's in jail what do you have
here
oh yeah now as I slip from grace and the
world has turned against me a few claim
to have love for me but once again you
show your love after deep reflection and
spiritual awakening I have come to
realize the friend love and soulmate was
there all the time I have not seen or
felt from anywhere anyone the intensity
and loyalty that you have shown me that
is why I want to commit myself to you I
want to marry you he sends you that
letter yeah he it's much longer letter
than that but that's the words that I
put in the book a marriage proposal
that's why he was in Rikers when I went
to go see him in Rikers and Rikers is
actually
that's a
really danur might be where they put
terrorists Rikers is
like I remember going to see him there
and
um he was in such bad shape you know and
um I Rikers I
like yeah Rikers
was bad danur yeah terrorists are there
but far more Humane conditions than I
would say
Rikers it feels it feels like the
emotion is still right on the surface
with you when you think back to these
these moments in your life oh
yeah it feels like I just came back from
seeing Pac at Rikers and I had to leave
him there was just like
yesterday but I'm also in a very raw
place in my life right now as I'm
thawing out as I'm dismantling my
defenses you know I call it the thaw out
so I'm I'm in a really raw place
obiously Pac was he gets out of jail and
sugaright I mean talking about timing I
think it was like a week ago or two
weeks ago that someone's been convicted
for Tupac's
murder a lot of emotions yeah how did
you feel when you heard about the um
conviction or that someone had that
arrested an arrest had been
made
um I was like I was
glad that an arrest had been made this
this was someone
who we had known had been in the car he
he had had
done some Street interviews about it you
know um and I was just hoping I was like
well I hope they're bringing him in
because we're going to get some
other questions
answered
so you know my hope is that we'll
get more questions answered
in the book you question but then you
confirm that pack Tupac knew how you
felt about him when he passed away
because you and him hadn't been speaking
no and I think there's a really
important lesson in in this for all of
us
yeah yeah we had a we had a
huge
fight huge it was one of the biggest
fights we had ever
had and and
[Music]
um and it was about how he had been
living you
know and uh I
really at that time you know really had
to let him know my position that I just
felt
like you know where he was sitting with
everything was just
just it wasn't going to end up
well
right
and we
had a magnin I mean it
was just beyond the two of us just at
each
other um
and I was just like [__]
that I'm not calling him this time he's
going to have to call me he was way out
of
line so I really dug my heels heels in
the ground in regards to like
nah you I let my pride I let my ego come
in I really took for granted that he
would be living forever like he had
already survived so much like it never
like I never I I looked at Pac as being
Invincible at this
point you know cuz he survived so much
even so much that people don't know
about you know
um but just like I say in the book I'm
like
man don't do
it don't do it don't don't don't hold on
to like that prideful part of yourself
you know with someone you really care
about like no you know he going to have
to call me this time you know I was like
nope was that the last time you spoke to
him that was the last time I spoke to
him I was the last time I spoke to him
and you know what's
crazy it meant absolutely
nothing it meant absolutely nothing and
so that's the test I always have I'm
like okay you're in this beef with
somebody will this beef matter on your
deathbed and then right away I'm like
nope let me give him a call you know
what I'm
saying that's my that's my
test almost a year later he gets shot in
Las Vegas you get a phone call while
you're filming on set that he's from I
believe from his mother um Shakur and
saying that he's in hospital in a coma
and a few days after that you find out
that he's passed away yeah I was on my
way you know fa was like no rush he's
going to be
fine um he had his fiance there with him
and his
family
um she was like so you
know come after your trip in New York so
I was on my way to
him and
my girlfriend Fawn came to the door and
she I I knew as soon as I saw her face
that he was
gone oh I know that
picture yep that was Thanksgiving he
came to LA to spend Thanksgiving with
me and we were at one of my friends
house you look like brother and sister
yeah we look like brother and sister
because that's what we were yeah he came
to Thanksgiving to spend Thanksgiving
with
me we talked about mental health earlier
do you do you know how to grieve someone
the loss of someone like like that in
your life no I'm still I'm still um
working out my relationship with
grief
actually yeah I haven't I haven't really
I yeah I'm
still working that out
because this chapter of your life was
loss mhm unor loss chapter 12 of your
book I've got this other picture that I
found that I thought was um
relevant oh now you do you know why this
is relevant I do Maxine and and Tupac
are both in that picture same
picture
do you have a
tissue
thanks
thank you give nice
hugs
um yeah that's
a
yeah
sorry
yeah I
am I lost Maxine and Pac back to
back so like to you know this picture to
be flanked by
them yeah I lost them back to
back maxing was a good friend of yours
um pack was your brother yeah and she
was like my sister you know she um
I met Maxine on Jason's
Lyric and
uh we became like super tight and she
lived in Canada and
so she wanted to come to Hollywood
and make a career for herself so I told
her that she could come live with me so
she came to to live with me
um she we we feel feel as though she
um had a
misdiagnosis that she had some kind of
thyroid
disorder that really
um disrupted
her psyche mhm and um she ended
up jumping off her mother's balcony
committed she committed
suicide um
so that was really
tough it seems it seems unimaginable
that that chapter and season of your
life could be filled with so much loss
and so much complicated
loss you know because in all these
situations as you write about in the
book there
are reflections where you you say in the
book If I you know you're left with this
feeling if I'd done this I could maybe I
should have done it like this or I wish
I'd treat that situation differently in
hindsight as we know is a wonderful
thing isn't it right you know and I've
sat here with a lot of people that have
lost a lot of people by by Suicide and
they all have the same Reflections yeah
they all have that last phone call with
the person where they had to put up a
boundary and yeah you know I've sat here
even in LA in that chair with I remember
BOS um her her partner at the time
calling and saying listen if you don't
come and do this I'll jump off this
bridge and then he does and yeah
it's like that existential
disappointment of just life
being what it is it's like grieving that
grieving it's like she in
a she went from this like
happy person like having this
condition that just
right and so I just sometimes I just
go this is when I just have to like
reconcile with
God it's like wow God like you really be
doing some stuff like you know what I
mean and it's like and sometimes I get
in grief around what life
is and then I have to make peace with it
feels thinking about your story it
feels confusing that God could seemingly
hand someone so much you know wonderful
career wonderful family all of those
things but at the same time and maybe
maybe there's a relationship maybe
there's a relationship between the two
because had you not had the had you not
come from where you came from maybe you
wouldn't have had all the wonderful
things that you have but also had you
not come from where you came from maybe
you wouldn't have experienced all the
loss that you've experienced MH so maybe
there's a relationship between the two
because I've not experienced that loss
but I don't come from where you come
from so I didn't lose friends growing up
right I didn't lose friends in in the in
my 20s either right
um having all the different experiences
that I've had as painful as some of them
are it gives me the opportunity to join
people in a certain
manner you know and in really powerful
places you know like I have a beautiful
friendship with
um Lauren London and she is the
Widow of nipy
hustle and because of the loss that I
went through with
Pac I could reach out to her
and I could go
hey anytime you need
anything anytime you need to talk I'm
here and Lauren's quite like me defenses
you know what I mean but I just kept
walking closer and closer and I just say
all that to say
that we've been able to meet each other
in a certain place because
of the type of losses we've had
mhm that can really
create beautiful
connection you feel me I feel you yeah
so there are blessings and
pain you just got to you just got
to know that to be true and wait for
that door to
open you know and that's just one one
tiny example example of
like the blessings that I've found in a
lot of the loss that I've had in my life
in general you know there's almost an
irony or a paradox in the fact that your
pain caused a disconnection but then the
pain caused connection
deep
because
heartbreak there's this beautiful scene
in heartbreak which is like it breaks
you
open breaks you open and you got two
places that you can
go you can go into the deep Wells of
Darkness or you can go into the deep
Wells of
light and I've been to
both and I've learned I ain't trying to
be over here no more you know what I
mean so I always use
heartbreak discontent
pain to help me search for bright
light and beautiful blessings within
them in the opener of the book you
described in the prol the life that the
world would have seen in over the next
sort of 10 years of your life before you
before you turn 40 you describe the you
know your super successful Hollywood
actress you've got this husband who is
you know Will Smith and he's a super
successful Hollywood actor you got these
kids you got the family you got the
house you got it all yeah externally
you're killing the game so internally
you must be killing the game right
internally you know I was spiritually
bankrupt right I I find it so I found it
so interesting hearing you describe the
relationship that both you and will had
as it relates to conflict resolution
uhuh I find it so interesting cuz I've
come to learn over the last couple of
years that the way we deal with conflict
predicts the long-term health of our
relationships oh God yeah and I think
there's this professor professor I think
it's called professor John gotman who
studied couples and tried to figure out
why they end up in divorce and he says
the number one reason is because they
build contempt
contempt that's all about conflict
resolution how you're dealing with your
[__] yes absolutely now you remind
me of my partner because she wants
connection she wants to talk she wants
to resolve things she's you know she
wants to deal with the emotions
I would like to not I will buy you
something to make sure that you're safe
right I'll pay for your stuff right but
I just want to work yeah and I and
that's the way you
describe and so I resonated with Will in
that but I I you sharing how you felt
throughout that story helped me to
understand my partner and all the
conversations she's had with me about
what she actually wants from me and me
misunderstanding
her because we have different Love
Languages yeah and your love language
starts when you're a kid right yeah for
sure and wills does too
absolutely what was that conflict of
Your Love Languages Wills you know was
very much like yours it's like M I want
to work I want to work hard so that you
can have everything in the world that
you'd ever want you know I'm you're not
going to need for
anything right am I Lov like was like
but I just want you to be here with me I
don't need all of that stuff I want to
look in your eyes and you know feel your
love and feel your protection here with
me
and you know it was like that connection
I wanted to feel like I wanted to make a
masterpiece out of our connection you
know and he wanted to make a masterpiece
out of you know the the the life
itself right and neither's wrong
wrong neither is wrong and that's what I
had to
learn that that that's where we we've
come to now and understanding neither
one of those wants are
wrong how do you balance
them because it can't be one or the
other how do we balance it like yin and
yang everything about life is
balance so I just want you to know that
you're your
partner you talking to me yeah just I
just want you to know that because in in
as couples we get into these power
struggles no my way is right no my way
is right well if you didn't have this
you know you know it gets into all of
that right and it's like
stop it's not about anybody being right
or
wrong how do you get the balance of it
that's it right and so
yeah it took Will and I three decades
CHR I haven't got that kind of time yeah
three decades okay three decades that's
what we'll get to that will get you it
doesn't have to be that you know it's
like do it
now cuz that's what I've said to my
girlfriend is I've told her that I've
got this opportunity now because things
are going well in my career so I just
want to f for now and then we're going
to have all of our lives together I
actually said that to her one day and
she reminded me of it a week later when
we were arguing yeah I was like we're
going to have all of our lives together
so like we'll connect later yeah we'll
connect later it's like what kind of
foolishness is that you know what I mean
and I'm going to tell you like
this I bet you when you're on your
deathbed you're not going to think
about whatever it is you're trying to
accomplish and achieve
what do you think you're going to think
about most when you're on your
deathbed how you were loved and how you
loved no 100% okay and even as I said it
I thought about Tupac and how you never
know how long you've got left with
someone you don't know why would you
ever want to wait and put that off it's
an excuse though isn't it it is an
excuse to justify my own toxic or holism
well you know I wouldn't call it toxic
I'm I'm I'm always careful with this
word toxic that we're thrown around
right cuz we're all so wounded exactly
and it's not
listen when intimacy makes us have to
look at our
[__] right it's easy to go I piss you
off I got you this diamond ring I got
you this you know beautiful bag I'm
gonna take you on this trip it's like
right but like real emotional intimacy
see we got to we got to deal with our
stuff a lot of stuff comes up
there but that's where that's where
connection and love and true
happiness true fulfillment is what's
going on in our inner
landscape you talk of this loss of
identity when you married will and this
quote I wrote down it feels like I can't
grasp my own Journey at times I feel
resentful and angry I don't know what to
do about it you and will had these two
sort of different Visions for happiness
in your lives together his being that he
wanted to take over the world as a
global you know movie star all the
things that he is um and within there
you start to lose yourself a little bit
it seems this word
resentful yeah very interesting word
yeah can you give color to that word why
you why you chose to use that word cuz
it's true you know it was
like I
felt as though at that
time all right if if I'm I I want to
help you do all of those things I'm here
to help you with that
right
um and I'm like and in
return I should get a bit of what I want
which is
connection
right and so you just for me just giving
and giving and giving and giving and
giving and forgiving
forgetting well not even forgetting not
realizing
that I
was abandoning
myself in the hopes that if I just keep
pouring into this if I just keep pouring
into him if I keep pouring into his
dream I'm going to eventually get what I
want right and that's a false idea in so
many ways right the I and so many of us
do
that if Will looked back and was trying
to give me whatever the hell it was I
was asking
for it wouldn't he wouldn't have been
able to accomplish it anyway because if
I'm not connected to myself if I don't
have a good relationship with
me there's nothing he can
do
so I was going to be asked out anyway
you know what I'm saying so it's like
that's part of the
journey there's no right or wrong
everybody's always trying to find the
good guy or bad guy in people's stories
there's no good guys or bad guys we're
all wounded trying to figure this [__]
out you know and so it took me a long
time to realize it is not his
responsibility to make you happy he
can't it's impossible
possible but it took me
forever hardheaded stubborn you know
because that romantic idea and that's
why I talk about checking the
boxes it's like I did everything I was
supposed to
do you get to have your dream how come
I'm not having mine and that's because
will was doing what he wanted to
do he was making himself happy he was
making himself
happy and he says that to you doesn't he
he says you when you separate he says he
wants you to go and he's like go go go
make yourself happy go make yourself
happy and how did you receive
that not
well not well because you know there can
be truth but you know what I'm saying
it's like how
we you know I think it was very true but
I think think at that particular point
of time I was just still really
resentful I'm just like you know oh so I
helped you get your happiness now you
just going to you know throw me to the
curb and you know I got to do it all on
my own now you know but that's the truth
I had to do it on my own you know just
like he did you got to do it on your
own you got to do it on your
own
and a lot of that's what this this is
about and me detoxing
from
needing fulfillment and validation
outside of
myself detoxing from needing it from
will my marriage my
family a career like I had to get to the
Bare Bones of
Jada and walk what I call the exiled
lands
and those exiled lands are going into
the crevices of you know those places
within that were holding me back from
myself all the fears all of the false
information and false ideas of what life
is and what a marriage is supposed to be
and you know who I was supposed to be
what a wife is like all of it
perfectionism perfectionism
and then I just went off to be
completely
imperfect and took joy in that because
being in Hollywood I mean this is a
place that values the appearance of
perfectionism I think every looks
perfect on the surface yeah and I
think it's not a healthy
idea it's just not
healthy and it's not true and nobody can
live up to that you know which is why
I've been dismantling that need to be
perfect for myself and that's been a
painful
ride
but leading up to your 40th birthday
which is also where the book starts
MH I I read the first pages of the
prologue and I couldn't quite believe
what I was reading because the place
you're at in your life this chronic
state of discontent that you describe
I I remember when I got to the chapter
17 in the book which is no socker Mom
here that was the first time I had to
stop reading because it was a lot of lot
for me to take M hearing that that's
what was going on in your head and your
mind that's the way you viewed life you
didn't see any path forward for you um
you're 39 years old um apparently you
know on the surface it seems like you've
got everything that anyone would dream
of having but internally there's this
chronic state of discontent tent
yeah if I was I often say to people if I
was a fly on the wall but if I was a fly
inside the walls
yeah what were you what was going
through your mind 39 years old about to
turn 40 oh I was in a very very dark
place very dark
place just I remember the I read where
you said if I got to 400 p.m. every
day I was like I made
it I made it and even that was like so
hard I mean you know I was talking to my
mother this morning because she just
read the book and she said I can't
believe you didn't talk about how you
woke up every day
crying really yeah and I was like you
know Ma I I just I think it was enough
to tell people that I was looking for a
cliff to drive off of
you know and what she brought up was
like she knew I was unhappy but she
didn't know
why so it wasn't that people around me
didn't know that I was really
unhappy it's just that everybody
believed what I believed which is why it
was so hard for me to talk about which
is like you've got everything what are
you unhappy
about
right and so that's how I was feeling
you've got everything what are you
unhappy
about and that was just I had so much
shame around that because I didn't
understand and even then there wasn't a
lot of conversation around mental
health and so I was just like [__] it I
can't keep doing
this I went
out and it was just a really really dark
time when you say you were looking for a
cliff to drive off of you're not saying
that theoretically or as a metaphor no
I'm saying I was looking to the point
where I was like big sir I knew exactly
the route to
drive and it's this really narrow route
and sometimes it gets really foggy there
at night and you I'm not I'm not making
it out of that out of that
drop I I remember driving
that one time going to Big Sir because I
was looking like here like on mahand I
was like these drops aren't going to
like I need a drop that I'm not making
it
back I don't want to be disfigured I
don't want I want out and I knew I had
to make it look like an accident because
I did not want my kids to think that I
had committed
suicide
no I was I
was yeah I was in a lot of pain I was in
a really really dark place and when
you're in that place you just can't see
your way
out and you really think I really
thought something was really wrong with
me
because what I was feeling wasn't
matching the ex exterior of my
life so I really did feel like I I was
just born
broken and I was just wired in a way
that
just what was the
truth if that's how you felt what was in
hindsight now what do you know to be the
truth of that emotion and that state of
your life 39 40 years
old what was actually going
on that
I really feel like that sometimes when
we get into these states
of wanting to
die you know for those of us who have
had like suicidal thoughts and what have
you sometimes it is chemical that's a
different thing I think mine was more
psychological something is asking to die
but not
you and it's a it's it's a different way
of
looking at
things right and so and it's it is a it
is a
extreme shift in
which I had to get out of my cycle of
self-hatred
I was in a psycle of self-hatred that I
didn't even
know cuz we're unconscious of
it so the mind is tricking us you know
what I mean
we got to be careful with this this
isn't as reliable as we think you know
and so
um but I was in a I was in a cycle of
self-hatred and it wasn't until thank
God for my son that I was you know he
introduced
me
um his friend's father did iasa and they
happen to be talking about it and they
talk to me about it Jaden came in the
kitchen he's like you got to sit down
with Moises and Mato you got to hear
about this experience ma that their dad
had was Jaden saying that intentionally
did he know that you needed that no he
wasn't saying that in he was just
curious he was just he knows I'm curious
he knows I'm a Seeker right
right that was
divine and so I went and talked to them
and I was like hey is your dad in town
and then their dad came and I talked to
him and he I was like I need that
and then the universe opened up a door
for me to have my own
ceremony for days of like
intense tense ceremony but that's when I
got to see that cycle of self-hatred I
was like this is
you these are your thoughts this is how
you feel about yourself this is the
problem and so the medicine really
showed me
this
pit of self-hatred I was in and it
helped me get out of it chapter 20 of
the book you you titled surrender yeah
surrender is an interesting word why is
surrender so important in your journey
you have to surrender everything you
think you are and everything you think
you know I've spoken to a lot of people
that have done Alcoholics Anonymous and
they talk about the importance of
surrender yeah it's like surrendering
you know for
me also surrendering to a power a higher
power and that's a constant that's every
day I have to remind myself and deep in
my surrender to a power far greater than
myself chapter 21 the holy joke the holy
slap and the holy
lessons it's interesting because there's
Sim ities between chapter 19 and chapter
21 in that you took a lot of the blame
for
situations chapter 19 the entanglement
conversation yeah because when you watch
that clip online at the at the red table
will looks tired and he looks sad and he
says that thing he says I'm G to get you
back yeah it did it made it look like
you had cheated on him or something I
have to like check the facts because if
you see that clip in isolation it looks
like you cheated on will or something
which is not what happened
yeah but you put that out anyway you you
could have not put that out I know do
you regret putting that out no you don't
I don't if I didn't put that out I
wouldn't have
seen that next place of healing that I
needed because I can take so much
like
discomfort it wasn't until I saw how the
people around me were affected
did I mean my mother my kids my friends
people
like they were like how could you do
this and I was
like well I just wanted to end
everything you
know will wasn't ready for the world to
know that we weren't together and that
we were living separate lives and I just
took it because I just wanted to stop I
just want it to
end people are like no my mother was
like what are you she was like you need
to get your ass in
therapy she's like you are codependent
as
hell you know and everybody was just so
and then how people that love me so much
were affected by that
time I don't think
it would have
penetrated and for me to really look at
that part of
myself if it hadn't been for how the
people around me
reacted because I don't really care
about public in that way like most
people do I don't whatever because I
understand the chaos and the just
absurdity of all of that but people who
love
me I needed that mirror to
see
that place of healing that needed to
happen in me in the dynamic Within
Myself what was that Dynamic within
yourself just like martydom oh okay
throwing yourself under the yeah that
martyrdom that I'm I will martyrdom the
holy slap yeah you you you write about
in the book how you didn't realize that
will had actually slapped Chris yeah
until much later you thought it you
suspected maybe it was a skit or it was
a skit and then I realized it wasn't but
I didn't think that he actually made
contact with Chris looked like he ducked
it social media grabbed onto this eye
roll mhm and they um social media
believed that that ey roll was some kind
of like go get him will yeah and even if
it was it was like I can't force will to
do anything you know and you will
weren't together we weren't together as
you know we were family I was there with
him as family but we weren't together at
that time were you surprised by the
reaction
and to that moment both for you but also
for
will yes and
no I was surprised at how much I knew I
was going to get blamed but like I
didn't think that it was going to be I I
mean it was insane you know it was like
wow um but I knew I knew we would have I
knew it was going to be a storm in the
book you say protection is your love
language mhm he protected you didn't he
um did you see that as a Act of
love you know it's a really complicated
moment it's a really complex moment I
would say yes and no in a certain manner
you
know
um but I definitely think in his
way but it was it was so much more it
wasn't about me that's why it's complex
right it's like it was about a lot more
than
just that moment a lot more than just me
that's what I know you know what I mean
cuz you know well and you know where
he's come from and yeah and I I there
was a lot that was stirring up for him
at that time because of emancipation and
he and Chris have their own history
going back to the ' 80s yeah going back
to the 80s and it's a deep
one J
thank you thank you for writing this
book because it's it's not until we
understand people's context that we
understand them and when we understand
them we realize that they are just so
much like us yeah in the wounded the
imperfect the survival the defense and
all of those things and that's exactly
what I got from Reading worthy um but
also as I said to you I think before we
started recording there were so many
moments in there that acted as the
advice that no one around me could have
given me because they've not walked in
those stairs you act as an elder to me
in the book because you you've helped me
to figure out and shine a light on a
certain area of my behavior which comes
from um maybe a wound that I have that
is going to hold me back and lead me to
a place I don't want to go to I promise
you yes yeah exactly and you're right
you use the word breadcrumbs but that's
exactly what the book is it's these
these it's your story but throughout
your story you leave these little
nuggets of wisdom and lessons that will
guide those that read the book to a
better place in their own lives and they
can subjectively Define what that better
place is but the wisdom is enduring
because the wisdom is human and it's
true so there's something in there for
everybody it's one of the best books
I've ever read because of the the
writing style the vividness I I felt
like I was in your grandmother's Garden
I felt like I was there at um all of the
key moments when when you have what I
describe what I thought was a panic
attack on the highway and those moments
the moments of sadness the vividness of
the writing is so is so profound but the
vulnerability of the book is the most
impressive thing it's easy not to be
vulnerable it's easy to paint a
narrative that is self- serving but
that's not what you do here you seem to
be in the pursuit of the truth and
that's exactly what I take away from
this book so thank you so much J thank
you thank you for creating a safe space
at your gray
table and uh for holding my tears today
I appreciate that thank
[Music]
you as you may know this podcast is
sponsored by hu if you're living under a
rock you might have missed that I
discovered hu's RTD about four years ago
hu's RTD is basically a meal in a bottle
it is nutritionally complete it contains
26 of your essential vitamins and
minerals it's got your protein in there
20 grams of protein it's got slow relase
energy in there in the form of those
slow release carbs it's just
nutritionally complete not only have I
got a good relationship with it in terms
of health but it saves my life in terms
of those busy days where there's a
higher probability of me reaching for
something I might regret if you haven't
tried HS RTD you probably seen it in a
couple of supermarkets but you can order
it online and the link is in the
description below let me know which
flavor is your favorite and also tell me
if it ends up adding value to your life
in the form of making you nutritionally
complete on those difficult
[Music]
days
oh